Expanded the product availability section (#3190)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/pim/create_custom_availability_strategy.md

---
description: Implement custom availability strategies to handle different business scenarios, for example pre-orders or per-region availability.
---

# Create custom availability strategy

> The product catalog uses an availability strategy to calculate [computed availability](products.md#availability-and-computed-availability) for a product, deciding whether the customers can order it.

Reviewer: To which noun does "deciding whether" refer?

How about...
```suggestion
The product catalog uses an availability strategy to calculate [computed availability](products.md#availability-and-computed-availability) for a product.
Computed availability decides whether the customers can order the product.
```

> The default is based on the product availability and stock amount.

Reviewer: "default availability strategy"?

> The default is based on the product availability and stock amount.

Author: ```suggestion
The default availability strategy is based on the product availability and stock amount.
```

You can replace this logic with a custom strategy to handle specific business scenarios, for example preorders, minimum order quantities, or per-region availability.

The following example implements an availability strategy which allows buying products when they're set as available, without taking their stock into account.
You could use it for [virtual products](products.md#product-types) or in preorder scenarios.

## Create custom availability context

Use an availability context to pass the parameters needed by the strategy to evaluate computed availability.

> To do it, create a class implementing the [`AvailabilityContextInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-ProductCatalog-Values-Availability-AvailabilityContextInterface.html) interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do it, create a class that implements the [`AvailabilityContextInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-ProductCatalog-Values-Availability-AvailabilityContextInterface.html) interface:
```

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/pim/availability/src/PurchasableWithoutStockAvailabilityContext.php') =]]
```

## Create custom availability strategy

> Create a class implementing [`ProductAvailabilityStrategyInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-ProductCatalog-ProductAvailabilityStrategyInterface.html):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a class that implements the [`ProductAvailabilityStrategyInterface`](/api/php_api/php_api_reference/classes/Ibexa-Contracts-ProductCatalog-ProductAvailabilityStrategyInterface.html) interface:
```

---

> description: Implement custom availability strategies to handle different business scenarios, for example pre-orders or per-region availability.
> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Implement custom availability strategies to handle different business scenarios, for example pre-orders or per-region availability.
month_change: true
---
```
